docs/pages/install.rst, before:

.. _install:

#####################
Installation
#####################

Python 3.8 or later should be installed and available in ``$PATH``; that's
basically it if intended usage of the package is as a library.

---------------------------
Installing into a project
---------------------------

For injecting the library into an existing project. No extra dependencies
required.

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m pip install pytermor

.. _install.demo:

---------------------------
Demo installation
---------------------------

Downloading source code for running some predefined examples (see `Examples —
Demo <examples.demo>`).

.. code-block:: console

   $ git clone git@github.com:delameter/pytermor.git
   $ cd pytermor
   $ ./run-cli examples/tone_neighbours.py
   Virtual environment is not present
   Initialize it in '/home/pt/venv-demo'? (y/n): y
   [...]

----------------------------------------
Development installation
----------------------------------------

For library development (editable mode).

.. code-block:: console

   $ git clone git@github.com:delameter/pytermor.git --branch dev
   $ cd pytermor
   $ python -m venv venv
   $ ./venv/bin/python -m pip install -e .
   $ ./venv/bin/python -m pytermor
   2.110.0.dev0
   2023-11-24 20:58:30+03:00

Commit message:

🌱 NEW: `_KDTreeApproximator` implementation for fast computations (10x faster) 🌱 NEW: `border` presets 🌱 NEW: `common` module fns: `coal*`, `join*`, `instantiate` 🌱 NEW: colors in "RRGGBB" string-integer form resolving 🌱 NEW: `[fast]` feature 🐞 FIX: removed default `sys.stdout` value of `file` param in `echo*()` methods as its messing up unit tests in other projects which use the library 🐞 FIX: removed `es7s.commons` dependency from aux scripts 💎 REFACTOR: `package tree`, `sgr output mode` graphs 💎 REFACTOR: `NoOpRenderer` -> `NoopRenderer` 💎 REFACTOR: `force_ansi_rendering` and `force_no_ansi_rendering` moved from `renderer` to `config` module 💎 REFACTOR: `RendererManager` and `ConfigManager` interfaces
📙 DOCS: `ansi`, `colorbox`, ``env` and `option` custom text roles
📙 DOCS: admonitions pdf designs
📙 DOCS: `docs-guidelines` update
📙 DOCS: `tone_neighbours` example update
🧪 TESTS: `border` module

docs/pages/install.rst, after:

.. _install:

#####################
Installation
#####################

Python 3.8 or later should be installed and available in ``$PATH``; that's
basically it if intended usage of the package is as a library.

---------------------------
Installing into a project
---------------------------

For injecting the library into an existing project. No extra dependencies
required.

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m pip install pytermor

If approximation time is essential, there is an option to install few extra
dependencies (``numpy`` and ``scipy``), which allows to perform the approximation
about 10x times faster (`details <guide.approximators>`):

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m pip install 'pytermor[fast]'

.. _install.demo:

---------------------------
Demo installation
---------------------------

Downloading source code for running some predefined examples (see `Examples —
Demo <examples.demo>`).

.. code-block:: console

   $ git clone git@github.com:delameter/pytermor.git
   $ cd pytermor
   $ ./run-cli examples/tone_neighbours.py
   Virtual environment is not present
   Initialize it in '/home/pt/venv-demo'? (y/n): y
   [...]

----------------------------------------
Development installation
----------------------------------------

For library development (editable mode).

.. code-block:: console

   $ git clone git@github.com:delameter/pytermor.git --branch dev
   $ cd pytermor
   $ python -m venv venv
   $ ./venv/bin/python -m pip install -e .
   $ ./venv/bin/python -m pytermor
   2.110.0.dev0
   2023-11-24 20:58:30+03:00
