docs/guide/color-palette.rst, before:

.. _guide.color-palette:

.. default-role:: any

============================
Color palette
============================

Actual colors of ``default`` palette depend on user's terminal settings, i.e.
the result color of ``ColorDefault`` is not guaranteed to exactly match the
corresponding color in the list below.

However, usually that's not an issue, because users expect their terminal
theme to work (almost) everythere and will be surprised when the application
forcefully override default colors with custom ones (in any case, that can be
accomplished by using `ColorRGB` or ``ColorIndexed``; their color values are
hard to customize without special configurations; but it's recommended not to
use them for regular output).

Note that ``default`` palette is actually a part of *indexed* one (the first 16
colors of 256-color table).

.. only:: html

   .. raw:: html
      :file: ../_include/xterm-colors-256-p.html

.. only:: latex

   .. figure:: ../_include/xterm-colors-256-p.png
      :align: center

      *Indexed* mode palette


-----

.. rubric:: Sources

1. https://www.tweaking4all.com/software/linux-software/xterm-color-cheat-sheet/

Commit message:

- approximation algroithm split into three methods - add approximation algorithm wrapper - color class methods refactor - docs design font update

docs/guide/color-palette.rst, after:

.. _guide.color-palette:

.. default-role:: any

============================
Color palette
============================

Actual colors of *default* palette depend on user's terminal settings, i.e.
the result color of `ColorDefault` is not guaranteed to exactly match the
corresponding color listed below. What's more, note that *default* palette
is actually a part of *indexed* one (first 16 colors of 256-color table).

.. important::

   ``@TODO``
   The approximation algomanrithm was explicitly made to ignore these colors because
   otherwise the results of transforming *RGB* values into *indexed* ones would be
   unpredictable, in addition to different results for different users, depending
   on their terminal emulator setup.

However, it doesn't mean that `ColorDefault` is useless. Just the opposite -- it's
ideal for situtations when you don't actually **have to** set exact values and
it's easier to specify estimation of desired color. I.e. setting color to ``'red'``
is usually more than enough for displaying an error message -- we don't really care
of precise hue or brightness values for it.

Approximation algorithm is as simple as iterating through all colors in the *lookup
table* (which contains all possible ... ``@TODO`` finish

-----

.. only:: html

   .. raw:: html
      :file: ../_include/xterm-colors-256-p.html

.. only:: latex

   .. figure:: ../_include/xterm-colors-256-p.png
      :align: center

      *Indexed* mode palette


-----

.. rubric:: Sources

1. https://www.tweaking4all.com/software/linux-software/xterm-color-cheat-sheet/
